okay well we are now doing welcome to
the weekly I profess GUI and in web
browsers weekly sync up cool this week's
call is going to be focused on my PFS in
web browsers no ipfs npm we want to put
all the younger in packages on my PFS
alex plus cds has been working on that
for some time in the background victor
is working on related work to make an
open registry so we're going to kick
things off with Alex who's just gonna
give us a quick heads-up on where he's
at like what his focus is today and
where he kind of sees it going original
travel I know that like some new ideas
have occurred to him in the last few
weeks with github announcing their
registry most interesting for the people
on this call is we are hoping to release
ipfs NPM with the idea this desktop app
and the port there's a PR from Henry
that does the boilerplate of making the
command available but what I wanted to
spend some time on the school doing was
just like figuring out what the distance
between should we release it on the
world today my gut feeling is no but I
kind of want to like poll the people
here present on what their feelings are
and what just to try and pull together a
short list of things that need to happen
before we're ready to call ipfs NPM a
thing so I've put a bunch of notes in
the document but people should feel free
to add more let me share my screen with
those notes on it so that anyone not
familiar can talk about it can someone
volunteer to be a note-taker please I
can't see your faces so please holler
yay thanks Jim feel free to take notes
in the relevant sections of the doc
so we will talk about NPM one might be
first Alex do you want to jump in and
tell us where you're at from what what's
next on your hit list
sure so NPM one ipfs two components to
it
first is a mirror of the NPM public
registry that adds see IDs to fool the
various packages that are available so
each each package has a file called
apartament that describes the inversions
that are available and the toggles that
make up those versions so we just put a
cid next to each Tarble field there is
the idea they would used to resolve the
same Tarble reviews HTTP for normally so
there's a process that listens to
changes from NPM database for new
modules that are coming in and every
time it sees a new module it goes off
downloads the toggle adder to ipfs and
then broadcast the cid to a bunch of
registry mirrors and each mirror has its
own copy in the registry and then
updates them using these co DS it
receives so that's a server side
component there's a client side
component that when you do an NPM
install using it so you can invoke this
client side component and what it does
is it spins up a web server and create
an IP FS node it configures your local
copy of either NPM or yarn to use the
web server that it just spun up instead
of hitting the public registry so when
you start installing things it will make
a request to this web server that you're
running locally with a path that
includes a package name and when it
receives the request for the package
name it looks up the Packman in its
local repo using the IP FS Noda its
funnel if it doesn't have it then it
will go to public registry of copy and
registries kamerad afternoon add it to
his local node and then server back to
the client and then the next time it's
it
check to see if it's been a plate of
food generally would return it from the
local repo the client will then feed
that back 20 Abel says instead of server
will feed that back to the MPM coin
itself which will use the pac-man to
work out which table at once to download
in order to satisfy the similar version
that the user has like is chasing know
then make a request to that terrible to
our server that's running locally the
online component will then take that
terrible user to look up in its local
repo in its ffs and if it has a CID for
that table or not if it doesn't have it
then again it will hit the registry to
work out that's the ID which is odd if
that happens because you've just
downloaded the baculum has all the
celebrities anyway it's possible that it
happens in between events or whatever
and so anyway so if it doesn't have that
that's the idea we don't get it if it
does have the CID then it will use ipfs
to resolve the tarball and stream that
back to the client in this case being
NPN which then goes oh I got a table
from somewhere great unbox it puts on
the disk and it will just repeat that
process for every single dependency that
is needs to install and the question so
far some but more like ok that sounds
interesting
but the key piece of the puzzle are we
are running a service that is lazy
mirroring and PM's registry that's piece
one so a centralized piece of the puzzle
has to do is is two parts of the thing
that the developer runs on their machine
the CLI tool one is this local HTTP
server so you run a registry proxy on a
local host on homeland and the CLI does
the work spinning up the local local
proxy and
then proxying other commands through the
npm where was the flow yeah so if if the
client if yawn or the npm climb they
were using may request stuff aren't for
Parkman's
or photographers then i just forwards
them straight on so the public NPM
registry it's reduced online login you
will change your password or publish
something whatever all that traffic go
straight to again we don't event
cemeteries or to do anything that we
already interested in these parchments
[Music]
does anyone else does it make sense to
people here present some sense enough
enough to be doing this okay so so then
the next piece of it is we're worried
where's your head up with it the your as
far as i'm aware you're focused on
performance improvements and refactoring
in case our pivots yeah so there is a
problem with with the NPM ipfs client
but why you so the whole the whole of
NPM is represented as a massive
Hampshire so you can copy that into your
local repo but was you know on a copy
the whole thing because it's enormous
but what you really need to feel this
copy the root mode of the show which is
one diagnose and should we see the quick
and I turned out there was a bug in the
UNIX the first exported I think so long
ago now well I can see is basically
functions and say it was there was a bug
and I was trying to cool down the entire
shower choice key yo dude what we need
to do is pull down one no because when
you when you trying to resolve a patent
it will say right well you want this
module with this name so it will look in
the show ok right well that is gonna be
on this branch of course not that bad
then you get it so you done whatever
switches for
knows that you loser they're loading the
entire shot and then go was it this one
this one this one this one more this one
so there was like the exporter is clever
enough to not load the whole shot I
think there was a plug in there my first
it wasn't there was shooting the wrong
behavior for that anyway so it's trying
to fix the whole thing I fixed it I grew
very tired of looking at pool streams
because they just need to make
everything really convoluted and hard to
follow and we have this lace in Kuwait
reflector coming out I was like I'm just
like refract this is wasting away
cool yeah that was a scope creep anyway
so I fixed the bug you've got really
fast but I obviously need to do the rest
of the work to actually ship the fix and
that's been me for the last like three
weeks just to async/await
refactoring of all the files related
stuff in the interplanetary file system
which is like your tedious max that's
good it's better to go and fix up in the
core than to work around it outside of
the core yes no access to both sides
yeah there's applause there can be
tricky absolutely I think inators is
getting faster like it's much faster now
than it was I was referring the trickle
tag and yeah so the the previous
implementation in order I don't
interrupt test for a big file and the
previous implementation was taking about
78 seconds to return the wrong CID
whereas the current like the async/await
one was taking about three and a half
seconds to return the wrong scale which
is cool I mean it will just shoot me
return the right slowly and sounds even
better yeah it's gonna be good man so
then the question becomes so that you're
the only factor and understanding
biggies for work a you're imagining that
your head will be out of that next week
yep and then with that in place the are
you too deep to say what you would be
doing next like do you know what your
next few steps are for something that's
interesting
the wind his service on our server that
receives a new NPM module and says
here's a tarball breaker hesitant
broadcaster see IDs to all the nerves so
it doesn't quite popped up which is
funny
except for pub/sub doesn't sign messages
so we have these registry mirrors that
are like yeah cool if this Eid that
sounds legit and yeah it will it will
just like take that's the ID and sticker
in the registry just accepting the fact
that it's received a message that the
pair idea that it comes from claims to
be from the replication master but it
turns out that nothing actually signs
these pub/sub messages so I don't trust
that mirror anymore because it's
entirely possible to poison it with
spoofed messages so that the client is
clever enough to it'll like standard
crime so MP understand behavior the
pikemen has caches of all the toggles
and it should in theory validate that
toggle we just downloaded against our
hash but because they got the hash from
the packet which we got from us so we
don't change the hashes in the document
so it's not that's not one rule to the
pub sub problem just a CID and MPI
monarchy of us I does actually validate
what like it validates the table that he
got from me I gave us hash against the
the SHA hash that came from the backing
so in theory like the worst case
scenario is that you would end up
downloading the bunch of things that
aren't what you wanted and then going to
the public Bruns drink a little bit from
there instead so the worst case
scenarios that the download becomes
slower like at no point where you
actually not get what you asked for
you just might download two things
instead of one thing but anyway so once
once again equaiiy fracture is done and
once
pub/sub is signing its messages which
jacob says has come
see that I want to recreate the web
streamer because that's the only way we
can really guarantee that we haven't got
a bunch of poison mirrors and that
sounds that sounds wise although the
threat seems pretty low given what you
just said but good housekeeping yeah
there's also a bug in my first choice
either ghosts around ham shots that mean
that is possible to generate an invalid
shot which is fixed in 75 so registries
only regenerating anyone but this might
all be moot so Ollie alluded sir kind of
things i've been thinking about in the
interim always get hard to recent
announcement so like so sneaking into
that like if the bright future of like
javascript registries is some kind of
you know federated set of walled gardens
then hola all our merit does is narrow
npm so tomorrow somebody publishes their
hot new module to github you'll never
see it by our registry you know which is
a bit of a shame and consider all about
the distributed web to kind of have this
centralized service the richest a mirror
of another centralized service it
doesn't really you know we're not really
walking the walk which is a shame so as
part of like china
make it so that we wouldn't actually
need to have this separate client
component for NPM and ipfs i submitted a
poor requester to pocket a which is I'm
probably saying Iran it's it's a module
of NPM users to basically choose like to
to download modules from from from
someplace so when someone from NPM talks
about NPM supporting multiple transports
it happens in in potato so I added so I
create a pull request to placate a that
adds support for
ipfs hashes and IP NS names and using
that in your package Jason to resolve
the app acumen or a table which is you
know kind of fun right here so there we
go thanks for the others has put
the link in the chapter up here so I can
used the URLs like ipfs : hash I first
got on slash slash hash or IP NS : /i P
and s name and then called nerds my time
on that PR first I'll be saying well
actually you should look at this
enormous issue here when we decided the
correct ways of representing things as
URLs do it it's kind of it uses the
protocol FS : which seems a little
presumptuous to kind of like land grab
all of the FS protocol and I I mean it
might be technically correct but I doubt
we'll ever get that merged so yeah
having an ongoing conversation there but
what I would like to do is kind of go
back to that PR and kind of refactor it
so that instead of having all the code
for like the ipfs and the IP NS had my
protocol handlers being protected so
having it just be like an external
module that you would install so you
would do something like you know npm
install' - G question just like quick
clarification regarding the FS I'm quite
sure it's very old discussion and we had
much newer discussions on the topic so I
probably a jump into that issue and
clarify strongly agree I'm pretty sure
that FS stuff is old old old years and
has been superseded with EFS : - :
I mean issues of his like four years old
was on X no surprise we change our mind
since anything anyway
yeah I say having an external module CVT
something like NPM install - G NPM -
transport - ipfs and then now would you
know create that would put a modular
system that the Katie will be able to
resolve to say alright cool you've said
my PFS : / - I'm just going to hand him
off to this transformer transformer to
work he'll will
that would be cool and then we cuz
actually gives us control of publishing
updates to the price Colangelo
rather than having to get PR suppose
it's appreciated anyway so that's
question
it's that still not clear to me what the
user facing changes that you're
proposing like it's you're saying like
ipfs :
it's like flash URLs in like like you
would they get hub you are Li get URL so
if you say like that's kind of on / -
hush then you're pointing directly to a
tarball so it's like pointing to a zip
file some room if you say i P&S : / /
then the IP NS name should resolve to
apartment which means that you can
publish things and means that you can
update things which is the interesting
user facing part because if you can
publish your own apartment on IP NS then
you have no centralized registry anymore
exactly so that point we have this
registry mirror well we have this URL at
moment this registry don't chairs - I
profess to hire at the moment is this
mirror of NPM with added CID crunchies
but if instead it was some kind of
portal search engine thing to be able to
find modules that were published using
IP NS names now that will be quite quite
a thing so we could keep our little
server side processes watching for new
version coming from NPM and use that to
publish IP and last name so that we've
got some modules available straightaway
but then we can also have one that's
taking things that come from github and
published IP unless names from that and
take them from ever and then of people
that there some way of people are
submitting their own IP NS names of
their own modules that are publishing
and yeah I mean suddenly everything is
distributed how this is on the continuum
of like this is an exciting idea that
I've had
- like this is something we could
implement in a few months of work we're
all ignores the fact that I pianist at
the moment is so slow that it's pretty
much unusable yeah
so video in a slight channel a while ago
the demoing I pianist resolving
parchment over IP n F 30 seconds per
dependency so Hugo was demoing his
upgrades to our Guinness using DNS and
other miscellaneous tricks so I think we
can I mean there is a future when IPS is
quick assuming an online assuming you
have connections to centralized services
and DNS resolvers right well you know in
my case but who is it is there an issue
where you've written up your thoughts on
this year I said something we can it's
just I mean I know as soon as I finish
this async/await refer to okay well
don't forget while you're in on the
refactor tractor I guess so I do want to
spend some time talking about just the
basic view X of the DFS NPM as it is
today and like defining what we think
needs to happen but given that you're
talking about lots of registry stuff it
might be interesting to hear from Victor
because Victor's got some cool project
that seems relevant to this sure before
we move on in general with the multi
registry stuff that we're talking about
and together with the new package
registry I think together we can come up
with a way to refer to the different
paths that the registries have NPM has a
global scope now and they also have the
namespaces for themselves but now we
have github as well where you from
username on the github project and so on
in the future there will be more
registries but there is still no unified
way of referring to these attributes
voice so maybe so multi-format needs to
be invented where you can refer to
packages in the in the different
projects
anyways so about open registry the the
main idea is one I guess a better sort
is to focus on the on the fear point so
the fear is that there is a few entities
only the infrastructure that we
open-source developers or relying on
open registry is part of a bigger bigger
effort to create open infrastructure
something that I call open services the
main point is to have it funded by the
community developed by the community and
owned by the community itself so for
example the NPM registry currently is
owned by a company called NPM Inc once
they run out of funding or they don't
find a way of announcing themselves we
don't know what happens with registry
they don't seem to have a plan will
happen in case of a shutdown and moving
on from this there is always the fear
that the registry will eventually
disappear so open services kind of
paints up like a framework for what
happens when it shutdowns
how can the user export their data how
will the service finance itself and all
of this data should be should be public
so compared to NPM one idea felt
basically the same thing except it's
developing the community rather than
being financed by a for-profit company
in this case being protocol up so I
think today and beyond all my TFS unless
the license have changed it's owned by
David Diaz eventually it will probably
move to be owned by protocol app or
maybe a ipfs foundation in the future
right now is a private company the
belonging
developing the the tools for doing this
my fear is that once the funding if the
funding runs out these the developer
will stop even though people are
interested in contributing to it so the
the the whole point of open services
basically set up a framework which you
can see in the open services
repositories that I've linked in the in
the
in the notes for this call and basically
just set up some guidelines but the
expenses and income should be it should
be public although all the work that is
happening should be probably the
conversation should be public the
metrics should be public the
infrastructure everything should be
public and the community should be able
to involve themselves in all parts of
development not just in using the
software Indians so that's like the
overview but it's mainly focused on the
right now that the project is relatively
new and I am focusing on the governance
of the project not as much on the
technology because the technology is
easy compared to setting up the project
in a way to have a long term ability as
a question to Alex yeah you're not in
touch with the knight foundation
Guardians vil oh man I think they're
called Open juniors nowadays or
something like that
the plan is eventually to start
contacting either the Linux Foundation
which I understand open tears to be a
portal but right now they're only had
the conversation with like ether and
other people about it I haven't made any
concrete steps towards the I think open
registry right now is an experiment to
see if we can have self sustainable
infrastructure project that source not
exists today and then if everything goes
well can find another like custodian of
the project as long as it follows the
same framework but here yeah is it the
case that open registry uses IP FS under
the hood
currently yeah so the first the first
part of of our registry is the like the
API back-end
which runs in a on a dedicated server
every time our requests consume it
download the package package and Absa to
IDF s so it's a it's a lazy registry but
then similar to npm on idea of us the
result second CLI utility called
polliver
which basically is not the same as the
MPM on ipfs just written in go line is
but of note and it connects directly to
the open registry IPA first node and it
pulls down packages we are back in bed
and started sharing it on on your local
network and other other peers nice it
sounds like there's a lot of overlap
between the two efforts and and we've
spoken about this offline but so like
short term we have a goal to release the
I give smpm command-line tool as an
opt-in experiment so you install I give
us desktop and there's a new piece of UI
that's like this is if you use NPM this
is an experiment in cotton to have it
monkey around with your path so that we
deployed that the command line is now
available to you
Eli's convertible and the feeling right
now is that given some of the so it's
it's like an order of magnitude slower
than NPM today and so I think that at
this moment we have to be fairly
realistic that it's it's kind of an
experiment that we're encouraging ipfs
like users people who are keen on
decentralization we want them to try
this out to get feedback and to help us
focus performance improvement working
out the events but it doesn't seem it
seems like something that we're gonna
have a tough job selling to the average
developer who isn't interested in
decentralization given that where if the
ask is like we're installing module took
ten seconds now takes 40 seconds yeah
exactly so I I have the same experience
with the NPM on ipfs but I'm pretty sure
that's like implementation specific
issues regarding the performance
whatever the proxy I mean writing is
always faster than than be downloading
be HTTP so I'm pretty sure you will find
one one or two issues where you can
brace the performance
because something silly is happening
it's not something that I've seen in the
Golan ecosystem of slippage be that same
performance issue it's good tonight okay
so in the in the in the short term we're
going to be releasing it as we have a
understanding some incredible
performance improvements if it is
released with my PFS desktop it's going
to be configured to use a go ipfs demon
under the under the hood anyway so that
might change things although we haven't
tested that configuration but it feels
like longer term so this is kind of in
the next two months we're in a position
where we could release it like next week
the other purpose of this call is to
kind of chance people who have tried it
out and see like what they think is the
bare minimum like what can we tog as a
release and say this is worth experiment
like throwing out to the users and
experimenting with what kind of feedback
are we looking for
like what's what is the purpose of this
endeavor I guess was still at like level
zero so I'm looking at Jessica Schilling
smiling on that because this is this is
where she's like guys have you thought
about why you're doing this like well
that's why I'm reppin is cool so it's a
but also detect run like it's really
interesting to I kind of knew that there
were similarities between IPs and Gaiman
open registry but I didn't realize how
similar they were so it's if it feels
like a longer term we should be looking
to like is there's there's a huge amount
of value in us just stress testing IP
investment making most performance
improvements but it seems like for this
project to have more long-term benefit
to the community and have a life beyond
that it seems like we should be looking
at how it merges in with your plans for
open registry or at least that would be
a very kind of useful like stuff that we
produce should be really useful for you
if not directly working together sure I
think it's worth stressing MPM on ipfs
is focused on NPM right the JavaScript
ecosystem
while I open registry does not have the
same limitations it will be a universal
package registry at least that's where
where we are heading right so I am just
from the messaging on the website today
it says it's gonna focus on yes so just
yeah no it's the first focus obviously
is to like regain the control of the
private registries so Larvik docker and
packages and NPM essentially like
registries run by private companies the
first one since I have the most
experience with NPM was NPM and that
website was made to reflect the current
site not the future type of project that
is once okay well I think now it's a
good point to move on to the more
interactive segment which is do you I've
put together this list of things that I
can see that we need to tackle before
before we offer this up to users as
something that we say is good and useful
so I can just whip through that real
quickly like the the overarching thing
is we've got a goal for this quarter
which is to get this into people's hands
and start getting feedback but I I still
don't have a clear idea of whether it's
whether we intend to support NPM on ipfs
long term as a service or whether this
is actually you know a a useful
experiment for stress testing idea fest
but I don't know if we we assembled have
the answers from it but um it's worth
reminding ourselves that we don't know
that yet if we do know that someone
should tell me so that's the big one is
speed and I think I'll access at this
one hundred times it's going to be
challenging but if victory of saying is
true then clearly there is some hope
there also we need to do a lot of work
around testing I think one of the like
what are the benefits what was it the
situation of using this one of them is
there are now options of pulling modules
from my peers from my co-workers I'm in
an office full of developers and we're
working on the same project and installs
should be lab local to my fam they
shouldn't have to go outside the network
so I think we need to do some testing to
make sure that that is the case that
like I just haven't seen it and seen in
action and there were some reports on
the the Cote pull request that
suggesting that the speed of like ipfs
already has a tarball and it wasn't much
faster than if any there was some
question about whether local LAN IP FS
connection fetching a terrible it was
about the same speed as an HTTP request
to the NPM registry which sounded
unfortunate so I think we have a big
challenge around speed today but it
sounds like a lot of that can be it's
gonna get better
based on Victor's Victor's findings the
other blocker we have is registry
stability as far as I'm aware you've
kind of got an open issue with infer
that is please please can we have a more
stable centralized registry proxy and
there is a big thumbs-up
yes we will get it but no timeline as
yet so gonna set me up with an account
so I can deploy it onto an SES customer
so and it's good yeah which means that
you'll be at the pointy end of season
admitting it that's fine I just I just
wanted to be stable and deployable and
repeatable and all that and it's not
it's just running on a Big Easy sob easy
to books on them which is not no idea at
all but I think yeah they've kind of
realized that they're not gonna have
times doing themselves so they're just
can you give me the keys to do so which
is great that sounds good I mean you
will you will learn all
the details that way and that that's
going to be useful okay so that block
Gina when that's going to happen no I
mean get Erin said two days ago she said
it would be yesterday okay so then then
it's back to like what are what's the
benefits of using this over NPM for me
it's always like the thing that gets me
most excited it's like I can co-host the
things that I need depend on that seems
to be for me like if it's slow I can
deal with it if there's some value to it
things like but I'm struggling at the
moment to find a way of presenting that
back to users beyond saying like hey
good work you did the right thing you
are covered co-hosting your modules I
can't see a good way today of being able
to tell the user how much good work
they're doing just because of the lack
of an API for being able to give
bandwidth per cid but I'm as anyone like
Alex if you have any thoughts about
anyone Connie and well how do we present
to the user like the value of using this
tool I guess is the question
the verifiability is is interesting but
the current implementation of NPM II
does verify chars so it's it's a nice
feature of ipfs but it isn't bringing
anything new to and then there's two
things are the first thing is that they
can turn their internet connection up or
not still work and the other thing is
there's no possibility of a left pad
incident because everything on the
microbus is forever
you know so I mean am/pm could remove a
version from a document but we moving
versions from a mirror so always be
there the github registry of Heine and
you're saying that they can have some
kind of automated blocking thing where
if you get a vulnerability published
they will just yank your package until
it's resolved in one way or another you
know obviously if the price of your dev
dependencies and all that kind of stuff
which you know typically he don't really
care that much about vulnerabilities
unless it's like steering stealing
you're like cryptocurrency well it was
on the manor but then you know you get
these run abilities I like this tool
lets you add arguments to the command
line even though you know the tool is
for having or against those automated
our automated on ability reports to turn
out to be false will affect and it won't
affect anybody using NPM idea first but
it's it's I don't think that's a good
thing necessary to say this is so much
better because as I was saying this is
better because it's not as bad as this
there's not a great way to sell anything
yeah I wouldn't frame it quite like that
but sure um I work in marketing I've got
an idea how to cram it okay I think like
there's the sort of altruistic aspect
where hey I'm providing some bandwidth
I'm helping close this thing but I think
that it's it's not even just altruistic
I think it's like you know there's
people I just went to the CSV comp
conference in Portland where it's all
scientists and they're doing research
reproducibility and it's a hard
requirement for them that they need to
be able to have their data published and
that the software tools that they use
that goes along with the research and
have it be reproducible by other
scientists so they can build on their
data and cycler data and so a lot a
large part of this is sustainability and
Prevention of software collapse
which is what happens when npm goes
offline
it probably won't happened but you know
but also you know like this this is for
software but a packet packaging can also
be used around data sets and with data
sets there's problem where there's just
not a lot of people using you know a
brain imaging skin or something like
that
and they they need this ability to
organize amongst themselves long term
storage in multiple things and you know
this institutional lose funding and but
that needs to be surfaced to the UI
somewhere like it's really you know
people have to right now organize
offline to say oh let's have so many
copies of this and with the centralized
thing you know there's also so how would
so the value out there is like I've
downloaded that this is my dependency
tree for this app and now have it all in
a BFS so I have a root C ID for that
particular tree of dependencies yeah I
mean they didn't only get some way of
sharing that route cid was like I need
to be able to like pin that to some
other node so that that particular
snapshot is forever available yeah I
mean it's sort of a collaborative
pinning type of thing where they're
actively like there's groups of people
branding together to actively make sure
that data or packages stay alive into
the future make sure and I think like
being able to see like health indicators
as to how many replicas are out there
and and then if that there's already a
million people like mirroring a
particular package that might be good to
have more people in it for latency but
you know that that's not necessary
not necessary for keeping the data alive
in the future but for very small you
know if you're publishing I say a module
and you don't want to use NPM you know
and it's a very niche sort of thing then
you're doing it in a decentralized
manner you're gonna need some other
people to keep that module alive is that
that sounds like something that we need
to message in difficult in the CLI then
certainly I'll give us desktop could
talk about it but I don't because you're
sort of talking about modules individual
modules and preserving then forever
whereas I'm thinking about the dev user
story of I've installed desktop and now
I have this new tool why why would I use
it so there's a story around okay you'll
you're dead tree is now represented by a
single CID which is kind of cool sounds
like better than a package lock Jason
that's an improvement but like you might
want to use these decentralized tools
because you want to provide some
sustainability to a piece of software
that hasn't been published on a central
registry these entrust publishing is
probably a little way beyond this in
this in the next two months for sure the
the messaging should include these
ideals next so then we've got more
simple stuff like there has been a lot
of thought as to which emoji should go
into the ipfs NPM CLI but I think
there's just a this one is low-hanging
fruit just to tidy up the output so that
it's a bit more approach
the current implementation follows the
format of how NPM likes to announce
every single HTTP request is doing back
in the day that feels like something
that we could collapse away but I don't
Alex if you got any opinions on the
current output like I don't know why it
is the way it is maybe there are some
good reasons I mean Alan wanted to see
CIP is flying passes who's installing
stolen that's maybe not oh okay
Alan I am aware that Alan has his npm
looking set to maximum so that he can
see every HTTP request Allah is making I
think for most people that's probably
more noise and information you forget
Alan is near yeah to play devil's
advocate on that if we are struggling
with speed issues the more random things
you can flash across your terminal the
more it looks like things are happening
right I guess I'm not saying that's a
good pattern just saying so it's just
saying it's definitely doing something
okay and then there's yeah there's a few
simple ones like we invoke ipfs for
commands that don't need it and we don't
invoke ipfs for commands that do you
need it so they seem like small things
that we can fix before releasing then
there's the kind of usability question
of should should ipfs NPM wrap NPM more
transparently like should should you
alias OPF smpm to be your NPM so that
you actually remember to use it I figure
if it's a separate command it will be
something that you try once and then
forget whereas if it is your NPM then
you just use it all the time
question throwing out a suggestion that
is probably a horrible suggestion it
would make us deeply deeply unpopular
but by having an alias out to say you
install the desktop client and it
Elisa's out and him as a default
interesting just to see how many people
notice see how many people notice the
change in speed I mean I'm not saying
that's now saying that's a good idea but
it would be very very interesting to see
I mean I was kind of of the mind that if
we tidy up the logging output and you're
installing this it deliberately and this
flow would be installed desktop and it's
offered to you would you like me to
upgrade your NPM with ipfs skills like
my feeling was when I first heard about
it the first thing I did was alias I can
listen again to the MDM so that I would
just not forget to use it at the time
the registry was even more unreliable so
I quickly had to stop doing that because
I couldn't actually do any dev work but
it was what it was the approach that I
kind of instinctively went for so then
it was the approach I suggested that we
go for desktop but I went to sanity
check it with people if there is is it
can easily cause a fence if you go and
mess with people's paths but I think if
if you've told a big switch in a UI that
says please make my NPM like get messy
with that work with other tools that you
like I regularly switch between own
versions and have different versions NPM
using NPM and then if I switch between
two then that would rewrite that again
and again or good pickles so it's like
if we have to monitor that and
constantly switch back with that cause
more issues we end up in a world of
conflicts between multiple management
tools and is likely to cause issues
certainly with the current 100 bit MDM
and related switchers use like a shim
that will essentially run a program to
see what version of a thing in my on so
you're not actually changing the direct
path to NPM every time that you switch
so it it shouldn't cause too many
problems obviously like crazy people do
crazy things and they're always going to
be edge cases I guess like maybe it's
worth trying to build something and
seeing if a selection of protocol people
it does it work for them before shipping
anything would be like there's at least
ten different ways that people run their
terminals and would quickly work out if
that's gonna which way is it get a break
just as a quick put your hand up vote
who would prefer it to become their
default if you use NPM and you talk to
this in would you like this to be in
p.m. without get this what would you
like it's a separate command so hands up
for NPM one two three and four five and
four separate command one tea please
yeah that's pretty split 250 and a
question and some apps are yeah so
questions so say you know so say we
default that and what about the
viability of you know you're sitting
there you're sitting there looking at
your terminal and knowing you're
installing a package in is taking
forever and ever and ever and ever and
ever and then you know maybe the fall
back on that is to have a reminder in
the CLI that just says hey if this is
taking forever and this is making you
angry you can you can temporarily on
ipfs and goodness your npm by doing this
don't press the speed boost button
burning fossil fuels yeah so this is
something this is a recurring problem
that like the performance issue so
companioned had to put the toggle in so
it's like can you ask companions to stop
doing what companion does because it's
slowing my browsing experience chris
mode would be good but yet that might be
the remember the way i can't immediately
visit what
would look like but um that is something
to consider certainly from the UI
started that things the desktop is gonna
have a toggle and it should be visible
Erica don't know if you got any time to
sketch out any ideas on that
maybe it's way too soon but we talked
about this like yesterday yeah and in
the context of a broader like lump of
experiments this is one mmm
this is one experiment like some do you
uh gosh so we would we were suggesting
that there would be some feature in the
UI of desktop that lets you enable
various ipfs experiments and that MBA my
professors one there will probably be
more so in and I thought perhaps it
could be you know when you when you
launch the UI it gives you a
notification you know and it asks you
whether or not you want to know what we
you know we've got an experiment or it's
been installed
you know maybe it says it's been
installed at any rate it's surfacing
what's going on because this is such an
experimental you know ipfs it's an
experimental thing so it lets them know
hey we have this idea Monica idea we
have M p.m. on a ipfs running and then
an option to you know click over to just
see what that's all about
but in terms of configuring it in an
ongoing basis I think maybe it's in the
settings and you know you can either ask
before installing or automatically
install these and experience and maybe
the toggles are there as well so I PFS
has a bunch of experimental features
that currently the only way desktop
surfaces then is by letting you edit the
config so yes there is a there's long
been does
and screen suggestions I'd like all of
these toggleable features should be
represented as something tolerable in
the UI this might be the time to do that
yeah for sure questions in the chat
where does desktop have a cm I know the
next release of desktop is going to make
my PFS CLI available on your path but
that'll just mean that if you didn't
have white give s on the sit on the
command line before now you do it
doesn't have its own extension command
line but I think it could Lydell what do
you reckon I think this desktop as a
command way to just saying out loud
sounds stupid but it could just work
unless the Chrome and Firefox are GUI
applications but you can customize a lot
of behavior by adding like comma nine
toggles and switches and you can create
aliases that run predefined profiles
yeah yeah I see I see no reason not to
it's actually it's kind of just more
work at this stage like it's not the
main show but it doesn't seem like it
would offend anyone and isn't going to
be a huge chore so we should add it
Chris the benefit I feel with that would
be our custom install distributions so
we'll be able to basically install it on
a version that could be like already set
up with NPM else Mike if s configured
and things like that so that's the
opportunity we have Jim says will it
work with young will NPM ipfs work with
your own is that the question Jim the
that that particular command line tool
already wraps whichever one it finds
well yeah just it was just question if
we work it already yeah I guess there's
a package package - manager option you
can pass that can be as an NPM where you
are it's basically the commander that we
use which you can access in a
configuration file
Stocki us know which is great and after
the let's say you type in IPM - I have
any idea that and after that anything
you type just get pumped straight to the
package manager it's using so we haven't
like re-implemented
like installer anything crazy like that
maybe we'll just goes to whichever one
you're using tell yes you'll support any
and yeah new hot package manager X that
comes after you on t so good alright we
are about out of time I thought this
call was really helpful it really was
helpful for me anyway feedback welcome
to question from Andrew in a chat or
does this integration bundle up if isn't
PM or does it run NPM install I give us
NPM when you want in the proposed
intuition right now I think in stores it
and pin style but it's a good where are
you going with that question Andrew was
there more behind it I wish I was going
with that question of you need to be
able to talk to NPM registry to be able
to install the the the way the NPM works
offline in theory mostly thinking about
ipfs camp I mean like is there a way
that if you're if you're surrounded by
people with this thing can you get that
thing it might be the case that like is
the node module it's like inside the
thing inside the gist about but then I
guess you got all the dependencies as
well like it gets pretty hairy pretty
quickly and it was mostly like if you're
already doing this then that's pretty
cool otherwise like it's an interesting
like bootstrapping crazy more okay you
can you load ipfs NPM movie FS you know
investor still yeah that's the
rudimentary version of like been a
decentralized package yeah
well I say if you'll it comes baked in
as well so we already do this with the
web UI right like a companion no longer
ships with it and it just pulls it over
IP FS when you first request it so if we
know the cid of a bundle that version of
there's NPM and yeah sure I guess the
only problem is that ipfs NPM has
dependencies that are compiled during
the installation process
yeah those can be removed then yeah
definitely drop it in and have it work
that's definitely a for further future
question all right we are out of time if
people wants the ground I will keep
talking if people need to drop off feel
free to do that but um the the vvv the
remnants of the call are open mic so if
anything had anything they want to share
now would be a good time to say it shall
hallow one thing maybe would be thinking
back to the why a bit more maybe we're
not gonna hit that with the first
version and perhaps the longer tail of
that is the whole story about the
centralized package ready tree and which
it feels like we could enable so it's
like what would be the first prototype
version of NPM and IFIF idea first we
could build that would basically allow
you to publish a module into my PFS
and then fetch it from my defense that's
in it that to me feels like a
interesting story at least with
everything that's going on in the market
right now is that bigger am I being too
naive I don't know I'm asking that
questions your love to know I know the
poor requester poco today that enables
like DNS names as ways to resolve par
commences those will do that you can
totally do that either than that like
that the interesting things were I see
the speed of our penis resolving we're
just going to improve the other thing is
distributed identity that you can treat
at the moment there's no dignity some
way of saying
hi I'm aching praying I approve this
package like so me teacher can enjoy its
and interesting conversations with
Microsoft about their own just riveted
identity platform which is kind of just
kicking off and using my PFS to store
things which is got cool but like at the
moment I can realistically if you wanted
to start typing today and like that
program
yeah the identity is coming the whole
thing this whole indeed any other open
mic segment anybody want to share a
thing I have a request for help looking
for volunteer I realized that I'm
talking to mostly Europeans right now
looking for a volunteer who is
comfortable with react that can spend
probably only 15 or 30 minutes with me
sometime today go on let's do it
yes thank you tech team nice
anybody got anything they want a demo
yeah anything fun alright then the only
thing left took well there were some
other things on the dock you can look at
them at your leisure mermaid diagrams
changed my life so rad so where's this
you don't need me to tell you that they
went well it's a lot of notes thanks Jim
no made diagrams you just you just type
out the flow and it keeps you a diagram
it's amazing
anyway oh my god I could do dependency
yes right so I've been meaning to tell
you about this but I figured you'd see
on this call like you just point this
thing at the thing and it figures out
when you've used the same word multiple
times so your dependency diagram pian
hop from now on and of course the big
shout out for hack nd is my new favorite
way of writing mock then because it
supports murmured diagrams in line you
just give it the type give a code block
type and OMG if you want to elevate oh
oh it's happening it's happening yes
there you go see that Jam I think we
were going to be communicating more
clearly from now on about our DAGs
talking of communicating clearly about
our DAGs
check out Allen jaws I give a stag
visualizer service I started off working
on it but today he's just made it look
beautiful so you should check it out
there's a link in there you can
visualize all your decks and change all
athletes so when you add a file there's
a whole bunch of options for how the bag
gets constructed and it's sometimes a
little difficult to understand what
those dag options are slowly with
benefit of posterity that could file
look into the Internet
there he is come on I live between 12 by
trunks gives you some an eye laughs
that's in a balance back wall if it was
in a trickle bag oh my god what if the
chunks were really big and you wouldn't
see very much it's great play with that
to your heart's content the animations
back make that's the only thing that's
missing yeah they were all completely
fake though that's the problem and okay
it's true okay that is the end of this
ball but there's one last thing to do
talk about next week is anyone got a
burning issue that they want to talk
about what's the top of your mind I he
does the in web browsers folks wanna
pick the topic for the next one we can
do this offline I just thought it would
be a good habit to get into to make sure
that we know what we're talking about
next week by the end of the school
unless somebody else has another topic
I'm sure we can come up with an
interesting okay so my suggestions were
simply preschool is getting a lot of
work done on it at the moment and we'll
be the center of people's also I
professed camp thanks Andrew I always
think in we should talk about I
practiced school and visualizers and
camp content maybe that would be
something that's important that we
should catch up about
people demoing of but I'm open to
suggestions
let's let's leave it at preschool and
camp content for now but we shouldn't
talk about it off this cool all right
any other business big thank you to
Victor for coming on the call and
telling us how it's going with open
registries it's just a reminder to us
that like our output should be useful
beyond just demoing what IPS can do like
if we can reframe I could have an NPN
there's something that can feed into
open registries and that would be better
all right tune in next week to the IPS
GUI and in web browsers weekly cool
right out get content addressing see you
later